Welcome back and homeboy I just threw a bunch of text on the screen.
Don't hate me.
I did this so in the future you can pause the video when you revisit it and have a nice summary of why
you need to do with images.
But I'm going to give you the details now.
Going one by one.
So let's go through some of the points the first ones we've already covered right.
If you want transparency you might want to use PLG if you want animations.
Then use a gif if you want really colorful detailed images.
Then you should probably use JPEG.
Nice spelling there on my part.
And if you want simple icons logos or illustrations that can scale well you can use as features.
Now I talked about compressing some of these especially PNB and JPEG that tend to get pretty big and
we can reduce the size of them without losing image quality.
And our Web sites using some tools online and they're actually a ton of tools that you can use.
These the ones are my favorites are going to show you how they work.
So let's go through them.
Let's use a large DNG file and make a small with tiny punji and then a large shape file and make it
smaller with JPEG optimizer.
Let's have a look.
I have over here the two Web sites we're going to use again.
You have online versions you have apps say you can download to do the sort of things.
These are just my favorite and tried and tested really good tools and they're free.
So with JPEG optimizer we can set the compression level.
We can set the size of our of our image and we simply choose a file.
I actually have two very large files that I've downloaded here.
One's a pig and one is a piano.
So for jpeg optimizer let's load this large image.
I'm going to choose file
and you can see over here that it's thirteen point two megabytes just absolutely massive.
You definitely don't want to send that over the wire for a user especially if they're on their mobile
phones.
That's going to take forever to load.
So I'm going to open that and just click optimized photo skin to do its work here because it is pretty
large.
In the meantime let's go to tiny PAGG.
They have a nice little panda logo which I.
I'm a big fan of.
And you see over here they actually do JPEG files as well which is very misleading because their name
is tiny PAGG looks like they're expanding anyway so let's drop a large PNB file here if I can drag and
drop it in here.
We see that it's 3.8 megabytes pretty big but tiny PNB is pretty fast.
And look at that we've just minimized it by 1.1 megabytes without losing any quality.
And we just saved 71 percent very very cool.
How easy was that.
I can just download the file now and use it in my web site.
Let's see what the jpeg optimizer has been up to.
All right.
They have even bigger savings here.
We have nine nine point nine percent savings as pretty insane.
So we went from a massive 13 megabyte file size to just thirteen point five kilobytes.
And if we're just displaying an image like this on a Web site you can see that it's still very clear.
Very cool.
So that's nice and easy right.
Now let's go back to our list and see what else we have.
All right so now we know how to use tiny PNB and JPEG optimizer.
Let's look at the next point we want to try and choose simple illustrations over a highly detailed photographs.
And that's pretty self-explanatory whenever you're building a website or a web app.
Just be conscious of what images are you using.
Do you really need that super detailed photo of your dog or can you just maybe use a nice dog icon instead.
Let's go to the next one.
Always lower JPEG image quality between 30 and 60 percent going to demonstrate how to do that very very
easily.
I have over here my large JPEG file again and remember it's 13 megabytes.
Very very cool image.
I can actually simply compress it without losing any quality by let's just duplicate this.
And when I save I get a little bar here and you can do this with a lot of online tools and I can just
change the quality.
You can see that the file size right now is 4.2.
If I do it all the way up it's 20 megabytes now and if I do it all the way down to about less than a
megabyte if I save this all right there is the image and the quality seems still pretty much the same
with the other one.
So again always compress your images.
There's other tools like image Optum that is also really really good.
Like I said tons to choose from online.
We're almost there.
Let's look at resizing images based on size.
It will be displayed.
And this is self-explanatory but something that not a lot of people do and I see this mistake being
made all the time.
You want to start by matching up the images resolution to the size that is actually displayed on a website.
So for example if you're displaying an image at only 500 pixels wide.
Let's say your CSSA says that the width of the images 500 pixels then you don't need to keep that image
to 1500 pixels.
Chop it down to the actual size because an image with half the width will be even less than half the
size.
So make sure that you're actually using the size that's appropriate for you.
You're never going to need something that's 5000 pixels wide and you can even adjust the size to make
your images look sharp on higher definition displays like red now or for k but you really don't need
to go any higher than that.
So repeat after me.
They're larger the resolution the larger the file size.
So to keep them small.
All right.
For the last three over here we're going to take a break and cover them in the next video.
So grab a coffee or tea and I'll see you in the next video.
So don't leave me hanging I'll see in that one but by.